>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so we created
a project now, called Task Lease if
we cd into our project directory and
see what we created here.
So this should be a pretty
bare bones project.
So we just have our package Jason,
our lock file, our main entry point.
Which is just a single file after TSX and
our app.json which is
a config file for your app,
and in your package.json under
scripts you can see the scripts
you can use to start your app.
So you can use the start command
which you can see runs expo start.
So to run the packager, so
the JavaScript side of your app,
you run mpx expo start, or
you can just run yarn start,
npm run start, or whatever package
manager start command used.
So this now will give you
a way a QR code to scan.
So basically, a React Native app
consists of two parts: you have
the JavaScript side, and
you have the native app side.
So, this here is building
the JavaScript side.
So how do we get our native app side?
For this learning course,
we're going to be using Expo Go for this.
So, get your phone.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now on your phone,
go to the App Store.
If you don't have Expo Go installed yet,
search for Expo Go.
>> Kadi Kraman: And download it.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
the app will look like this.
So if you're on an iPhone like I am, there
is no button here to scan your QR code.
So what you actually do is you open your
camera app and you scan the QR code.
Now, if this is the very first
time you installed Expo Go,
this actually won't work the first time.
So I installed Expo Go from scratch,
specifically to show you.
So I've tried to just close it,
and now I finally get this prompt
that says Expo Go would like to find and
connect devices to your local network.
And this is so it could actually
get this package managed.
So I'm gonna choose allow.
And go into the camera app and
scan this again.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
now you should see something like this.
So this is just your app.
So the code that we have in our
app.tsx running inside Expo Go.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let me show you on Android as well.
So on Android, it'll be similar.
So we're going to go to the Play Store.
We're going to search for
We'll just search for Expo Go.
We're going to install Expo Go.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we get this app installed.
And now on Android you do actually get
a button here to scan the QR code.
So let's allow Expo Go to use the video.
And scan the QR code, and
we have our app running.
Now the reason that the iOS app
doesn't have a button is because
Apple doesn't allow it, so the Expo Go
app wouldn't be allowed on the App Store.
It's a basically that's where
the restriction comes from, so
that's why they're different.
All right, so with these,
the debug things that are worth knowing
is that if you shake your phone,
this is where you get your debug menu.
So the debug menu will
have an option to reload.
You can show the performance monitor,
you can open a JavaScript debugger, or
you can disable fast refresh.
So the disabling fast refresh you
would usually only do accidentally, so
if your app is no longer updating, check
that you haven't accidentally disabled it.
But most of the time what you use here is
you want to reload the app for any reason.
Actually shaking your phone
might be a bit annoying.
So actually on iOS, you can also,
if you hold three fingers to the screen,
it will also open the dummy.
She's handy.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, and
I am actually going to open
this on an iOS simulator,
because it will be a little bit easier
to see on my screen for the workshop.
So iOS simulators, you will get
this if you have Xcode installed,
which isn't necessary for this workshop.
But we'll do that in the intent and
I just wanted to call out that we
used a TypeScript template, and
you might be wondering whether
you have to use TypeScript.
And honestly, I would very,
very much recommend it.
The reason being that the JavaScript
community like companies, and projects,
and communities, are very much moving
from JavaScript Script to TypeScript.
And TypeScript is just
a superset of JavaScript.
So all JavaScript code is
valid TypeScript code.
And TypeScript is just JavaScript with
some additional type information.
So even if you've never used TypeScript
before, I very much recommend doing it for
this workshop and you'll just get
a very light intro into TypeScript.
If you really,
really don't want to use TypeScript,
I actually had some time yesterday, so
I created this JavaScript only version
of the app that we're gonna be building.
I'm not linking to it throughout the
course, but I used the same commit names,
so you could look it up.
But honestly, the difference between
this and a TypeScript course is very,
very minimal.
So I would just do the typescript app,
but I wanted people to have an option.
And finally, with some debug tips, if
you're struggling to connect to Expo Go,
first make sure that your phone is on
the same Wi-Fi network as your computer.
You should be connected to
the same thing the reason for
it is that this bundler is running
on localhost on your machine, so
only devices that are connected to the
same network will be able to access it.
But if you still can't get it to work,
or if that's not possible, then there is
actually a workaround, so you can run the
start command, but with dash dash tunnel.
So the first time you run this,
it will prompt you to install Ngrok.
Then what it's going to do
is it's going to expose your
bundler externally to
the Internet using Ngrok.
And that way you can actually scan this
QR code from any device on any computer
anywhere in the world and you will run
the bundle from your local machine.
And this is incredibly handy if you want
to share what you're working on with
a colleague or a friend but also if you
want to get around this restriction.
So it's quite common on Windows when you
have a firewall for this to be a problem.
It's a little bit slower
than using it normally.
So if you can not use Tunnel,
I would recommend doing that.